This is dl version 1.6, created 7-Jan-92.

DL is a dynamic loader package for use on Irix. 
It may or may not run on other unix systems with a little hacking. If your
system has the ldfcn routines (-lmld) and either SysV shared memory or the
mmap() system call you have a fair chance.

If you need compatability with other systems there is a companion
package, dl-dld, which provides the dl interface but uses GNU dld to
implement it. GNU dld (and dl-dld, consequently) runs on a lot of unix
systems (but not on sgi). dl-dld can be gotten with ftp from
ftp.cwi.nl:/pub/dl-dld-1.1.tar.Z.

The dl library has been tested under Irix 4.0.2 and 4.0.5F on an Indigo, but it
should probably work on all machines under 4.0, and probably under
older releases as well (Older releases have worked under Irix 3.5, but
this version has not been tested on that platform).
Please let me know if you use this on another platform (also if it
didn't work).

There are some barely-working test programs in the 'test' directory. A
simple test is './test sub.o sub02'. This will load sub.o, call
routine sub02() which will in turn call submain() from the main
program. 

The package is updated fairly regularly (about once every few months)
as bugs are fixed and features are added. The newest version is always
available for ftp on ftp.cwi.nl in /pub/dl-X.Y.tar.Z, where X.Y is the
current version number.

Here are three gotchas that might cause trouble to the unsuspecting:

-  WARNING: there is a bug in the 3.10 loader which effectively stops
   'ld -A' from working. This dl can work together with a patched
   version of ld 3.10 that is available thru SGI to work around the bug.

-  I received a note from Brian McClendon from SGI, bam@sgi.com, who said
   that there was a bug in the R4000 that might influence this package on
   the Crimsons. I don't fully understand what the problem might be, but
   here's the note:
	This is just a note since you're doing a package on dynamic loading.

	There is a bug in the R4000s that we work around in the kernel, but
	the work-around depends upon executing .text only.  If you mmap
	and execute .data, you may run into this problem.  To avoid it,
	remind all R4000 users to compile dynamically linked code 
	with the -Wb,-dwalignbr flag.

	Later we will make the loader fix this for all code, but for now
	the ccom-piler needs to know.

-  Dl does not like other packages messing around with VM space.
   Examples of packages that do so have mostly to do with
   multiple-threads: the mpc library, the arena stuff, etc. There are
   some routines to help you write multi-threaded programs that use
   dynamic loading, see the dlother man page. (SGI: it would be *very*
   helpful if there was some way to query the VM system as to what
   ranges of VM space are in use!)

Jack Jansen, Centrum voor Wiskunde en Informatica, Jack.Jansen@cwi.nl
